It helps in increasing transmission.  We begin with
neck bending.  We will
start by practicing the neck bending action.  Keep your feet 2
inches apart.  Keep a distance of 2 inches between the feet.
Place your arms on your vest.
Keep your hands on your waist.  Accelerate slowly and
move your head forward.  While exhaling,
slowly bend your head forward.  Inhale, take
your head back.  While inhaling, take your head back.
Excel Bring your head back to
normal position.  While exhaling,
bring the head to the normal position.  Right and left
neck bending.  Practice bending to the right and left.
Excel and bend the head to the right.   While
exhaling, tilt your head to the right.
Inhale and bring the head back.
Bring your head back while inhaling.  Excel and bend the
head to the left.  While exhaling,
tilt your head to the left.  Inhale Bring the head back
to normal position.  While inhaling,
bring the head to the normal position.  Neck twisting.
Neck bending exercises.  Axel turn the
head to the right.  While exhaling,
move the head to the right.  Inhale and bring the head
back.  Breathe in and come back to normal position.
Excel and turn your head to the left.
Now while exhaling, turn your head to the left.
Inhale and bring your head back to
normal position.  While inhaling,
bring the head to the normal position.  Now neck rotation.
Exercise of rotating the neck in a circular motion.  Exhale
and bring the chin down toward the chest.   While
exhaling,
touch the chin to the throat cavity.  Inhale and slowly rotate the head
clockwise.  While inhaling,
move the head back in a clockwise direction.  Excel low down.
Exhale and come forward.  Now rotate your
head in an anticlockwise direction.  Now
turn your head in the opposite direction.  Inhale go
back.  While inhaling, take your head back.
Excel low down.
Bring it forward while exhaling.  Inhale. Bring your head to normal
position.  While inhaling, bring the head to the normal
position.  Now bring your arms
down.  And bring the hands back.  Let us move
on to trunk twisting.  Next practice is Kati
Chalana Kriya.  Keep your legs shoulder length
apart.  Keep a distance equal to the shoulders between both your legs.
Raise your arms to the
level of your chest.  Raise your hands forward in line with your shoulders.
Axel
twist the body toward the right.  While
exhaling, turn the body to the right.
Inhale come back.  Came back breathing heavily.
Axel twist the body toward the left.   While
exhaling, turn the body to the left.
Inhale, come back and wing your arms down.
Inhale and come back forward and
bring the hands back to the normal position.  Now moving
on to knee moments.  Exercises for knee movement.
Inhale lift your arms up to
shoulder level.  Inhale and bring your hands
forward to shoulder level.  Axel
Bend the knees and come to a squatting position.
Exhale and bend your knees and
come to a sitting position.  Inhale and come up.  Came back
breathing heavily.  Again Excel
and Go Down.  Exhale and
come back to the sitting position.  Inhale again come up.   Came back
breathing heavily.  Excel Bring
Your Arms Down and Relax.
Exhale and bring your hands back down.  Now we
begin with yogasana practice.  Now we will
practice yogasanas.
Tadas stand with your feet 2 inches apart.
Give a gap of 2 inches between the legs.  Inhale.
Bring your arms up to shoulder level.
Inhale and bring your hands forward to shoulder level.
Interlock your fingers and turn
the wrist outwards.  Interlock the fingers of both hands and turn the
palms upside down.
Inhale raise your arms
up.  While inhaling, raise your hands upwards.
Raise your heels off the floor and balance on your
toes.  Balance on your toes while raising your heels.
This asana brings stability and
firmness to the body.  This asana
brings balance and strength to the body.  Bring the
heels down.  Bring the heels back.  Axel
arms down and relax.  While exhaling,
bring the hands to normal position.
Tree pose.  Axel bend the right leg.
Exhale and bend the right leg.  Place the
foot on the inside of the left thigh.  Try to
place the right sole in the place of the left foot.
Inhale, bring the arms up
and joy the palms.  While inhaling,
raise your hands and join the palms.
This asana improves neuromuscular
coordination.  This asana maintains harmony in the nerves and muscles.
Axel Bring the Arms
and Leg Down.  While exhaling,
bring the hands and right leg down.  Now we
will repeat Vrikshasana on the other side.  Now
repeat this asana with the other leg also.  Bend
your left leg. Place the foot on the inside of
the right thigh.  Bend the left leg and
place it in place of the right leg.  Inhale, bring the
arms up and join your palms.  While inhaling,
raise your hands and
join the palms.  Stretch and maintain the posture.
Keep the body stretched and stable.  Now Excel
Bring the Arms and Legs Down.  Now
exhale and bring your hands and legs down.
Now we move on to Pada Hastasana.  Now we will
practice Pada Hastasana.  Stand with your
feet 4 inches apart.  Give a gap of 4 inches between the legs.
Inhale and raise your arms up.
Bring your hands up while inhaling.  Excel
slowly bend forward.  Exhale and
slowly bend forward.  Stretch Up From
the West.  Try to stretch your waist.
Keep Your Palms Beside the Feet.
Place your palms near the toes.
This asana makes the spine flexible and
helps digestion.  This asana
makes our spine flexible and
improves digestion.  Now inhale bring your arms
up.  Now come back slowly while breathing.
Excel Bring Your Arms Down and
Relax.  While exhaling, bring both hands
down and relax.  Ardhachakras.
Place your hands at the back of your waist.
Place your hands behind your waist.  Keep your
elbows parallel to each other.  Keep both your
elbows parallel.  Inhale and
drop the head backwards.  While inhaling,
take your head back.  Excel and maintain the
posture.  Exhale and try to remain in the posture.
This asana helps to
improve breathing capacity.  This asana
is helpful in respiratory activity.  Inhale, raise your head
up.  Bring your head back while inhaling.
Axel arms down and relax.
Exhale and bring the hands back.  Now we move
on to
Trikonasana.  Put your hands on your waist.
Keep both hands on the waist.  Stand with
your feet three to four feet apart.
Keep a distance of three to four feet between both the legs.
Inhale Raise your arms up to shoulder
level.  While inhaling, spread both hands at
shoulder level.  Turn your right foot
toward the right side.  Turn the toes of the right foot to the right.
Excel slowly bending
to the right side.  While exhaling,
slowly bend to the right.  Place the
right hand behind the right leg.  Place the right hand
behind the right foot.  Turn your head
and gaze at your middle finger.  Turn your head
upwards and look at the middle finger.
This asana helps in treating
cervical spondylitis.  This asana
is helpful in curing cervical spondylitis.
Inhale and slowly come up.  He
slowly came back, taking a deep breath.  Bring your right foot
back and turn your left foot toward the
left side.  Straighten your right foot
back.  Now turn the toes of the left foot to the
left.  Excel Slowly Bending to
the Left Side.  While exhaling, slowly
bend to the left.  Place your left hand
behind the left leg.  Place the left hand
behind the left leg.  Turn your head and gaze
at your middle finger.  Turn your head upwards
and look at the middle finger.
Maintain the
posture.  Try to maintain the position.
Bring your arms down and feet
together.  Join both the legs and bring the hands
back also.
Now we will move on to sing
postures.  Sit down with legs stretched out.
Sit down slowly and straighten your legs in front.
Keep your hands beside the
hips and back straight.
Keep your hands near your buttocks and straighten your waist.  This is Dasan.
This is punishment posture.  Bend your knees and put the
soles of your feet together.  Bend your legs at the knees and
join both soles.
Excel Hold Your Toes.
Hold the toes while exhaling.  Pull
your heels toward your body.
Bring your heels towards your body.  This asana
keeps the body firm and stabilizes the
mind.  This asana keeps the body strong and the mind
stable.  Now stretch your legs.  Come back
to Dandasana.  Slowly come back to the Dandasana
position.  Ardha Ustrasana.
Hold your legs under your body.   To
practice Ardhasasana,
come on your knees with your legs bent.  S between your heels
and knees together.
Sit between your ankles with your knees together.  This is
Vajrasana.  This is Vajrasana.  Now stand on
your knees.  Slowly stand on your knees.
Place the Hands Behind the West.
Place your hands behind your waist.
Inhale, bend the head back and relax.  While
inhaling, bend your head backwards.  This
asana helps in cheating back.  This asana
is helpful in curing back pain.  Inhale: Raise
your head up and hands down.  Exhale and come back
and rest in Vajrasana.
Relax in
Vajrasana.  Shashankasana.
Spread your knees apart.  Spread both knees.
Keep the palms between the knees.
Place the palms between the knees.  Axel
and stretch forward.  Exhale and
pull your hands forward.  Bring the chest and
chin to the ground.  Touch your chest and chin to the ground.
This asana reduces stress and
anger.  This asana is helpful in reducing stress and anger.
Inhale and slowly come back
to Vajrasana.  Inhale and come back to Vajrasana.
Stretch your legs out.  Sit in
Dandasana and relax.  Open your legs and
bring them forward.  Come back to Dandasana position.
Now we move on to Vakrasana.
Now we will practice Vakrasana.  Bend the
right leg and place the right foot beside the left knee.
Slowly bend the right leg.
Place the toes of the right foot near the left knee.
Bring the left arm around the right knee and
place the palm beside the right foot.  Move your left
hand over the right knee and
place it near the right toe.  Excel, put your body
to the right and turn your head.  While exhaling,
turn the head and body to the right.  This asana
increases the flexibility of the spine.
This asana brings flexibility to the spine.
Inhale. Turn your head back.
Bring your head back while inhaling.  Release your arms and
stretch your leg.  Exhale and
come back to normal position.  Now we will repeat
the same on the other side.  This asana
will be repeated from the left side also.  Bend the left leg and place
the right foot beside the right knee.  Slowly
bend the left leg.  Place the toes of the left foot
near the right knee.  Bring the right arm
around the left knee.  Place your plum beside the
left foot.  Swinging your right hand
over your left knee.  Place it near the left paw.
Axel Twist your body to the left
and turn your head back.  While exhaling,
turn your head and body to the left.  Release your arms and stretch your
legs.  Come back slowly and straighten your legs.
Relax to
Vishraasan.  Now let us move to prone
posture.  Now we will
practice the asanas done while lying on the stomach.  Lower onto
your stomach in Makarasana.  Lie down on your stomach in Makarasana.
We will begin with
Bhujangasana.  We will practice Bhujangasana.
Join your legs together.  Join both the legs.
Inhale and stretch your arms
up.  While inhaling, straighten both your hands.
Excel.  Place your hands
beside your body.  Line with your chest.   While
exhaling, fold your arms and
place your palms near your chest.  Inel
lift the chin and chest up to the boat.  While
inhaling, lift your chin and chest up to the navel area.
This asana is good for
stress management.  This asana
helps in relieving stress.  Excel and release the
posture.  Now exhale and
come back to normal position.  Relax in Makarasana.
Relax in Makarasana.
Shalabhasana Join your legs and put the arms
beside your body.  Join both the legs.
Bring your hands near your thighs.  Keep
your arms facing upwards.
Keep your palms facing the sky.  Keep the chin on the
ground.  Touch your chin to the ground.  Inhale
and raise your legs up.
Lift your legs while inhaling.  This Asana Helps to
Prevent Sayatka.  This asana relieves the pain of Sayataka.
Excel and Bring the
Legs Down.  Bring your legs down while exhaling.
Now I will rest in
Makarasana.  Rest in Makarasana.  Keep your
feet wide apart.
Keep a little distance between your feet.  Rest
your head on your palms.  Place your head
on your palms and relax.  Relax
now.  This asana relaxes the body and the
mind.  This asana balances the body and mind.
Now we move on to supine postures.  Now we will
practice the asanas done while lying on the back.  Lay Down on Your Back.  Lie down on your back.
Bridge
pose.  Now we will practice Setu Bandha Asana.
Bend both your knees and bring your
heels toward the buttocks.
Bend both knees and bring your heels closer to your ankles.
Hold your ankles.  Hold on to your coins.
[music]